# so-import-pcap

`so-import-pcap` will import one or more pcap files into Security Onion and preserve original timestamps. It will do the following:

-  generate IDS alerts using [Suricata](suricata.md)
-  generate network metadata using [Zeek](zeek.md)
-  store IDS alerts and network metadata in [Elasticsearch](elasticsearch.md) with original timestamps
-  store pcap files where [SOC](security-onion-console.md) can find them
-  provide a hyperlink for you to view all alerts and logs in [SOC](security-onion-console.md)

!!! TIP
    
    You can run this command manually, but for most use cases it's easier to upload a pcap file via [Grid](grid.md) and it will automatically run `so-import-pcap` for you.

## Configuration
      
so-import-pcap requires you to run through Setup and choose a configuration that supports so-import-pcap. This includes Import Node and other nodes that include sensor services like Eval and Standalone. The quickest and easiest option is to choose Import Node which gives you the minimal services necessary to import a pcap file. 

!!! WARNING
    
    Please note that so-import-pcap is not supported on heavy nodes.

## Usage

Once Setup completes, you can then run `sudo so-import-pcap` and supply the full path to at least one pcap file. For example, to import a single pcap file named `import.pcap`:

```
sudo so-import-pcap /full/path/to/import.pcap
```

To import multiple pcap files:

```
sudo so-import-pcap /full/path/to/import1.pcap /full/path/to/import2.pcap
```

Please note that if you import multiple pcap files at one time, so-import-pcap currently only provides a hyperlink for the last pcap file in the list. If you need a hyperlink for each pcap file, then you can run one pcap file per so-import-pcap and use a for-loop to iterate over your collection of pcap files.

so-import-pcap calculates the MD5 hash of the imported pcap file and creates a directory in `/nsm/import/` for that hash. This is where so-import-pcap stores the alerts and logs generated by the traffic in the pcap file. If you try to import that same pcap file again, it will tell you that it has already imported that pcap file. If for some reason you really do need to import that pcap file again, you can remove that pcap's directory in `/nsm/import/` and then try again.

## Examples

If you don't already have some pcap files to import, see [PCAPs](pcaps.md) for a list of sites where you can download sample pcap files.

Our Quick Malware Analysis series at <https://blog.securityonion.net/search/label/quick%20malware%20analysis> uses so-import-pcap to import pcap files from <https://www.malware-traffic-analysis.net/> and other sites. Following along with these blog posts in your own so-import-pcap VM is a great way to practice your skills!
